Apocalytes is apocalyptic RISK. Apocalytes is set up like RISK, but takes place in one of six apocalyptic scenarios. Players trying to conquer the world find themselves forced to work with their enemies to fend off the apocalypse. Can players put aside their petty rivalries long enough to save the world?

SETUP

Apocalytes is set up like normal RISK. Territories can be either chosen in turn or dolled out randomly via the territory cards. Players then get to place their remaining troops as they see fit. The number of armies that players start with depends upon the number of players:

Number of players & Number of Armies per Player
2 & 40
3 & 35
4 & 30
5 & 25
6 & 20

The apocalyptic scenario will not be chosen until after all armies are placed. This prevents players from placing armies in anticipation of a specific apocalyptic scenario.

APOCALYPTIC SCENARIO

Once the armies are placed, an apocalyptic scenario is chosen by rolling a die. The apocalyptic scenarios are as follows:

1: Zombies
2: Infection
3: Mutants
4: Aliens
5: Demons
6: Meteors

See below for rules concerning each specific scenario.

HEADQUARTERS

After the apocalypse scenario is chosen and the initial apocalytes placed, each player may choose their headquarters. Each headquarters starts with a single supply token. Players may choose to give up their reinforcements for a single turn to generate a new supply token at their headquarters, or to set up a new headquarters if their headquarters was destroyed during the apocalypse. The starting number of headquarters per player (and the maximum number of headquarters per player) depends on the number of players, as follows:

2-3 players & 3 headquarters each
4-6 players & 2 headquarters each

DIFFERENCES

Apocalytes plays very similar to RISK, with a few differences.

TERRITORIES

Territories can contain more than one player in Apocalytes. The player with the most troops in the territory owns the territory. The owner of the territory may give permission for other players to move troops in to the territory, but only so long as the owner's troops outnumber the mover's troops. Even if the players would like to trade territories, the owners of the local governments are not willing to give up so easily.
Territory owners can give permission for other players to move superior troops through and owned territory, so long as the superior troops do not end in the owned territory.
If attacks by the apocalytes cause there to be a tie between the number of troops in a territory then no player may claim control of that territory until the tie is resolved. When a territory is unowned, anybody may move troops in or out of the territory at will.

SUPPLIES

Each player controls a number of supply tokens. Supply tokens provide bonuses against the apocalytes and are sometimes necessary to stop the apocalypse. Supply tokens must be moved with troops, and players may only make a move with a supply token twice per turn. Thus, one supply token could be moved twice, or two supply tokens could be moved once each. If a player moves a supply token into a territory that they do not control, the owner of the territory gains control of the supply token. Players may move supply tokens out of territories that they do not own, but only with permission of the territory owner.

MOVEMENT

Each player gets three movements per turn. A single movement consists of moving troops from one territory to an adjacent territory. Movements may be taken at any time before, between, or after attacks. Remember that only two movements may involve supply tokens per turn.

ATTACKING

Attacking works as in RISK, with the following differences:

Only the owner of a territory may initiate an attack. If the owner of a territory attacks units within their own territory, then ties go to the owner of the territory. If a player attacks a territory which they do not own but in which they have troops, then ties go to the attacker.

The apocalytes may only be attacked thrice per territory per turn.

Players with control of a supply token in the attacking or defending territory may re-roll one die after both players have rolled, before the attack is resolved. Players with control of two supply tokens may re-roll two die before the attack is resolved.

REINFORCEMENTS

Each turn, players receive reinforcements equal to 1/3 of the number of territories that they own, rounded down. The minimum number of reinforcements per turn is two troops. Reinforcements can only be placed in territories owned by the player, but only if the territory contains no apocalytes. If all territories owned by the player contain apocalytes, then the player gets no reinforcements.

APOCALYTE TURNS

SCENARIOS

Zombies
-------

Draw six territory cards. Place five zombies in each of these territories and have them attack immediately, ignoring supplies: zombies catch the world flatfooted.

Zombie Movement:
